				How to Play Battleships

This is a game of guessing, strategy and logical thought dates back to before world war one and is known the world over 
for being a simple game that can be played with no more than a pencil and two pieces of paper. 
It is a two player game which has since been released by many board game manufacturers and its popularity can be seen 
through not only the intricate detail now put into physical and digital renditions of it, but now also in a Hollywood 
film based on the game.

				Start/Preparation

Each game can vary in the number of ships employed but a common practice is to have 5 ships of differing size (2 to 5)squares. 
An aircraft carrier is 5 squares long, a battleship is 4 squares long, both a submarine and a destroyer are three squares 
long and a patrol boat is two squares long. Each player must secretly place their ships on a grid of ten columns by ten rows. 
These represent the location of the ships on a battlefield. Each player will also be in possession of a second grid of the same size. 
Where the first grid is their own ships, the second one (which is blank at the beginning of the game) is a mirror of their opponent’s 
battlefield.

				Gameplay

Once it is determined who will go first, that person will pick a square at random, calling it by its reference of column reference, 
row number (C3 for example). This represents their firing a missile directly at that square. If the opposing player has any part of 
one of their ships positioned on this square they must call “hit” and mark on their battlefield (first grid) which part has been hit. 
Equally the attacking player will place an “X” on their blank grid (the mirror of their opponents field) to show a hit. In this instance 
the first player will now be allowed to make another guess. This continues until the attacking player misses.

As soon as the attacking player misses, whether it is the first or fifth guess, the tables are turned and the second player may now 
start making guesses in exactly the same way.

				Victory

The player who successfully locates all their opponent’s ships first by 
hitting each square they occupy is the winner as all ships have been destroyed.